'\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH obexftpd 1 "17 February 2009" "" ""
.SH NAME
obexftpd \- Mobile Equipment file transfer server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBobexftpd\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fITRANSPORT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With \fBobexftpd\fR you can set up an obex server on any
computers using \fBIrDA\fR, \fBBluetooth\fR or \fBTCP/IP\fR.
Use e.g. \fBobexftp\fR or the \fBObexFS\fR to access the files on this server.
.SH OPTIONS
The ordering of options is important. The first transport option will
start the server. Use basedir and verbose options prior to any transport.
See \fBEXAMPLES\fR
.SS "TRANSPORT OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB-i\fR, \fB--irda\fR 
Acceopt connections using the IrDA protocol.
.TP 
\fB-b\fR, \fB--bluetooth\fR 
Accept connections via bluetooth.
.TP 
\fB-t\fR \fIdevice\fR, \fB--tty\fR \fIdevice\fR 
Accept connections from this tty device. NOT WORKING!
.TP 
\fB-n\fR \fIhost\fR, \fB--network\fR \fIhost\fR 
Accept connections from the network to this port.
.SS "SETTING THE FILE PATH"
.TP 
\fB-c\fR \fIfolder\fR, \fB--chdir\fR \fIfolder\fR 
Set the base directory for the server.
.SS "VERSION INFORMATION AND HELP"
.TP 
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR 
Be verbose and give some additional infos.
.TP 
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR 
Print version string and exit.
.TP 
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB--usage\fR 
Print short usage instructions.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 
Start listening for bluetooth connections and use a safe basedir: 
\fBobexftpd -c /tmp/inbox -b\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
obexftp(1), openobex(3), obexftp(3), multicobex(3), libbfb(3).
.SH BUGS
Bugs ? Features !
.SH NOTES
The software has been tested and reported working on at least Siemens, Ericsson, and Nokia phones.
.SH AUTHOR
Christian W. Zuckschwerdt <zany@triq.net>
Alan Zhang <vibra@tom.com>
